---
num: "h04"
desc: "Chapter 5, section 5.1 -5.4"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-02-12 09:00:00.00-8:00
due: 2018-02-26 09:00:00.00-8:00
---
{% include no_staples_box.html %}
Complete your reading of Chapter 5, section 5.1 -5.4   (If you don't have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve").

<ol markdown="1">

1. (2 pts) Describe a problem that can occur if you dereference a null pointer.
<div style="margin-bottom:2em"></div>

2. (2 pts) Suppose you want to use a linked list where the items stored in the list are strings from the standard library string class, how would you change the node1.h header file on page 257 ?
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

3. (2 pts) Write the implementation of a non-member function <code>Node* deleteSecond(Node* head_ptr)</code>, where Node is a class defined on page 259. The function takes as input a pointer to the head of a linked list consisting of numbers. The function should remove the second item in the list. If the list had only one item, the function should delete that item. If the list was empty, then let the list remain empty. In all cases return the new head of the list
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>


<div class="pagebreak"></div>


4. (6 pts)  Read the definition of the bag class on page 262 that uses a linked-list to store the items in the bag. Then explain each of the following:
<div style="margin-bottom:2em"></div>
	i. Why does the class overload the copy constructor?
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
	ii. Why does the class overload the assignment operator?
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
	iii. Why is it a good idea to typedef node::value_type as value_type in the bag class definition?
	<div style="margin-bottom:2em"></div>

5. (10 pts) Do Big-O time analysis of the bag functions:  erase_one and insert. Justify each of your answers.
<div style="margin-bottom:10em"></div>
</ol>
